The "complete sincerity" quote is from Lawh-i-Ahmad. In this Tablet
Bahá'u'lláh asks God, "to protect the bearer of this blessed Tablet, and whoso
reciteth it, and whoso cometh upon it, and whoso passeth around the house
wherein it is." But your question still stands: why continue to read these
Words, when our physical ailments are sometimes not affected? If I begin
coming down with a virus, I think 9 times out of 10, no prayer has stopped it
from running its course. You can't have harmony between science and religion
if religion is free to ignore science!

It also never ceases to intrigue me that although we have thousands of years
of evidence that religious texts are primarily intended to be metaphorical --
revealing spiritual truths of an unseen domain -- yet so often we take them to
be literal. When Bahá'u'lláh writes a tablet of Healing, why is it that we
think mostly of physical healing?

There is no greater barrier in our journey than the boundaries of self. It is
a prison whose walls we cannot break, since our own desire strengthens them.
We are the narrators of our existence, deeply believing in the stories we tell
ourselves: a shadow world pulled over the eyes, a mirage of imagination.

I tend to view healing tablets as being addressed first and foremost to the
greater ailments of self and passion. But this is an effect I cannot prove or
demonstrate. There is no certainty in faith, only a confidence of the heart.

Just to add another layer to this conversation, here is a recent quote I found
from `Abdu'l-Bahá, which I very much love. It may worsen the matter from your
point of view, and I can appreciate that, but it really speaks to me in how I
understand the power of these tablets of healing:

> A friend interested in healing quoted the words of Bahá’u’lláh: “If one is
  sick, let him go to the greatest physician.”

> ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said: “There is but one power which heals — that is God. The
  state or condition through which the healing takes place is the confidence
  of the heart. By some this state is reached through pills, powders, and
  physicians. By others through hygiene, fasting, and prayer. By others
  through direct perception.”

From "`Abdu'l-Bahá in London".
