I'm trying to understand better what it is you support, rather than what you
reject. I'm pretty clear on that one, since you've mentioned it many times,
but the way you characterize science is more interesting to me.

I would say that science is "a methodology for learning about the natural
world through the discovery of repeatable knowledge". What we learn from this
method we often call "science", but science is really just the approach:
theorize, experiment, apply, repeat.

The actual scientific establishment -- where humans get involved -- is far
more chaotic. Just look at the history of electrical theory. It was as
backward and political as anything else humans do, except today we look back
and just see Maxwell's equations and believe science discovered them as a
result of pure rationality. But people are people, and scientists are people
too.

Science sometimes gives us hope and conquers fears, except when that scientist
is Josef Mengala, in which case it gives hopeless and engenders fear. Or the
atomic bomb for the Japanese, or the science of fracking and strip mining to
the environment. In the hands of the wrong person, science can be a terrible
way of trading our future in for dollars today.

Science is perfectly amoral: neither good nor bad, neither hopeful nor
fearful, it is a tool that reflects its users. If they are evil, science
produces dreadful results, like instruments of war, deadly toxins, and means
of destruction. If the people are good, science advances humanity and
strengthens our foundation as a species.

Your views on science seem to assume a positive moral component, which I find
interesting, since science has yet to agree on any scientific grounds for
altruistic behavior (though a recent result from neuroscience is hopeful on
that front). You speak as though science offers a bright and glowing future,
and that humans will become adapted to support this future by the mere act of
receiving what science has to offer.

As Einstein said in 1946: "Our world faces a crisis as yet unperceived by
those possessing power to make great decisions for good or evil. The unleashed
power of the atom has changed everything save our modes of thinking and we
thus drift toward unparalleled catastrophe."

Science has opened doors that could lead to catastrophic destruction, and the
ability to render the entire planet uninhabitable. Will science also close
them?
