The shell of the seed is hard, so hard! and there is nothing for it but to be
thrust into damp and dark and given patience, water, fertilizer and time.

I think we are all beautiful souls, but potential within the shell of self and
limitation. Some will germinate; some fall on stony soil and need relocation.

Yet how the farmer regards the seed is different from the miller. One sees the
merit of today’s reality; the other ten or a hundred years further on.


There is no greater barrier in our journey than the boundaries of self. It is
a prison whose walls we cannot break, since our own desire strengthens them.
We are the narrators of our existence, deeply believing in the stories we tell
ourselves: a shadow world pulled over the eyes, a mirage of imagination.


The real truth is a spiritual truth: that your being is unspeakably glorious,
but like an uncut gem, its inherent brilliance is not yet perceived. It is
culture that has us seeing only a rock, and this can become transmogrified
into self-hatred and a story of insufficiency and bleakness.


If life is a crucible of the spirit,
pride shouldn’t be taken in that
fortune excluded you from suffering;
but in that you learned from it --
or had the fortitude to survive.


A goodly character can lift the story of a person's life to the rank of
literature.


So many drops, cast on the spray
each unique, for just a moment
each alike, for just a moment
yet there's only the Ocean
the Born and the Unborn
with no difference between
but the one I think I see.


If you're asking questions to find silence, you've failed.
If you say anything at all, this is not helpful.
What you seek is as far from you as your seeking.
When you've abandoned all words, that.


Being too hard on yourself is ego too: measuring yourself harshly against a
standard derived from your own understanding. The path forward is a free and
humble heart, continuously learning and turning toward God and joy. “Ego”
arises from ideas that ossify into a false sense of reality — whether within
or without — and become veils between us and the Loved One.


For me, the essence of it is that our focus should be on the beauty and hearts
of our fellow believers, and the work we do on ourselves and our understanding
should be to deepen and enrich and make true that connection. This is in
opposition to the attitude of primarily concerning myself with my own
deficiencies and trying to become “better”, which centers the inner debate on
myself, and not on those whom I wish to know and love better.


As much as I appreciate capitalism, it dawned on me what feels off about
taking it to extremes: the “ideal CEO” approximates an amoral sociopath who is
willing to do literally anything the law allows to maximize shareholder value.
Not evil, just beholden to the profit motive.‬


The Covenant of God, to use a scientific analogy, is why we have the
confidence to call certain natural observations “laws” while wholeheartedly
basing our lives on those principles. After all, nothing says that gravity
must always be, yet it endures with a faithfulness that no one questions. One
ignores it at their peril.


To my ears it sounds like a man standing on the shore of a great ocean, with
an accurate measuring cup in hand, shouting to all who will listen: "See
what's in my cup? They lie! This ocean is not deep blue as they say; it has no
waves, no whales of the deep, no pearls of great price. Look at my cup! It may
be wet, but so is my saliva, what need is there? It will not even quench my
thirst."


I think that saying, "religion is about morality", is the same as saying,
"playing the violin is about proper fingering and posture".


The idea here is that Zen isn't an additive game; it's that you're not
required to play any game, no matter how real or necessary others believe it
to be. How you react to a situation, how you feel about it, how you see it,
isn't determined by that situation, or forced upon you, but arises from the
fact that *you agreed to play by its rules*. You can't find your way out by
gaming the system or beating the rules, as that only gives them further
strength and validity. You have to see the nature of your imprisonment, and
then you can decide what you want to do, freely.

> "We never had to take any of it seriously, did we?" she whispered.
> "No, we never had to." -- Atlas Shrugged

> "You think that's air you're breathing?" -- Morpheus
