Marriage is a great suggestion, if you find a good partner who understands you
and your aspirations. I'd like to offer some advice, though, on the matter
itself.

I grew up with a pretty strong case of Obsessive Compulsive Disorder -- as in
I felt the need to touch door frames a certain number of times before I could
pass through them without anxiety. So I know what you mean by the struggle
between low compulsions and high intentions. I've also had a few decades to
think about it in the context of the Bahá’í Writings and becoming a
functioning member of the community.

First and foremost, you didn't choose this. God gives us our preferences and
inclinations. Society makes it FAR worse than it would have been in a simpler
age. What matters now is how we cope with the challenge. But I want you to
take yourself off the hook for the mere existence of the challenge itself.
Nothing bad or evil about yourself lead to this moment. Some of us are just
prone to addictive behavior. (If I had ever touched a cigarette in my youth,
I'd be a hopeless chain smoker right now).

The steed of the first valley is patience, and it is a very profound sort of
patience. Even if you find that your journey would last a hundred thousand
years, it says you should not falter. Imagine that! We have to become so
assured of God's love, support and grace, that even the thought of dwelling
for a hundred millennia in our poor condition would not dissuade us in the
least. This is something to meditate on.

The "logic" you mention: I've also observed that divine knowledge tends to
pass in phases through us. First it informs the mind and our understanding;
then it transforms our vision and what we're able to see; then it affects the
heart and our sensibilities; and finally it manifests in our behavior and
reactions to the world. It can take a long time for wisdom to move from the
Writings on the page to this final step. I've been working on, "If they poison
your lives, sweeten their souls," my entire life.

Your desire to soar in the heavens of purity and chastity: that's who you
really are. Yes, the body weighs you down, but as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said, "The
spiritual world bestows only the joy! If we suffer it is the outcome of
material things..." Strive to shift your self-identification to these
aspirations, the things that are conducive to joy. The rest is simply not who
you are: it's your momentary condition. And as your identity moves toward the
spiritual, you should find you cannot hate this because it is pure accident.
Let that hate become pity and then compassion, and finally mercy toward others
who also suffer from it. You are fighting the true Jihad now, and it calls for
warriors of outstanding resolve: not in the sense of strictness, but of
overflowing spirit.
