I think Zen gets confused with the purpose of life. I see it as a rigorous
methodology suited to becoming aware of, and then popping, the
non-existent-yet-interfering bubble of illusion with which the human mind
becomes entrapped due to how our consciousness evolves from childhood. If you
will, it aims at birthing us from the caul of adolescent consciousness.

However, it says *almost nothing* about what is seen and experienced beyond
this point, since any attempt to do so would convey information that cannot,
by definition, be correctly processed.

Could you be an awakened person who adheres to a physical regimen of
Systematic Hedonism? I don't see why not. If anything, you simply wouldn't be
led by conceptions about it, or be attached to it as a means of emotive
ideation. Could you go the opposite direction and adhere to self-flagellating
asceticism? Sure. In this sense, I understand the method of Zen to be
"a-systematic", in that it eliminates the artificial systems we cling to, by
awakening to their non-being, in order to leave you free to interact with the
world how you will.

On the flip side, I take issue with the example presented by Bodhidharma,
which seems to suggest that the pinnacle of an awakened mind is to sit in
front of a wall for a decade. When Zen is taken to be "the whole deal", it
becomes far too nihilistic. It then seems to offer nothing but the elimination
of all established meaning, anywhere and everywhere, and leaving behind only
silence and void.

Instead, I think cancelling the "self" by means of awakening to the
ever-present void is merely the first moment of awareness, like waking up
after a long slumber. There is an entire world beyond that point, and none of
it (thankfully!) is to be found in the Writings of Zen masters. I admire the
purity of their devotion to exposing delusion, leaving us with no false dreams
to cling to.

Zen is great at striking you dumb in the face of mystery; but it should not be
seen as diminishing, in the slightness, the greatness of that mystery, or how
much is yet to be known of this existence.
